Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
Today’s a movie not often talked about by fans
Its the sequel to the classic weird, science fiction movie Donnie Darko
This is S. Darko.
This movie starts off 7 years later after
the death of Donnie Darko from the first film
who died after a jet engine crushed him to
death.
His depressed sister, Samantha, has run away from home
Joining her best friend Corey on a road trip from Virginia to California
when their car breaks down!
They are saved by Randy who takes them to Conejo Springs
where they check into a motel and meet the
owner who tells them about Billy Moorcroft
a boy who went missing.
Strange things happen with Sam, that night.
She pulls a feather from a TV and teleports
to a windmill where a man sits.
She tells him to save himself
and that the world will
end in 4 days.
She takes him through a wormhole
giving him time to run away before the meteor
crushes him.
Sam wakes up on a bench with
no memory of how she got there, she is taken
by a cop to the meteor’s crash site since
it’s nearby the motel.
There she learns more about Iraq Jack: a crazed
war veteran who has been going on about the
end of the world for several months.
She reunites with Corey and Randy and we find out that
Sam is a chronic sleepwalker and never remembers
where she goes during her walk.
Corey and Sam have lunch at a cafe where they meet Jeremy
who tries to talk about the meteorite he bought.
They leave and meet Pastor John who invites
them to the local nondenominational church
and gives Sam a flyer. But the girls aren't interesting and they leave
At a junkyard, Iraq Jack is frantically gathering
scrap where he meets Randy.
Jack tells Randy about the so-called Princess, actually the
Sam in the White Dress, who with her unlimited
power saved Jack and could save Billy. Before
Jack leaves he tells Randy
"The world is going to end!".
At Randy’s party, Sam learns about
Randy’s missing brother who may been taken
by the guy who took Billy Moorcroft.
In return,
Sam tells him her wish to be a dancer and
that she wants to ‘switch lives with someone else'
their conversation ends on a sour note when makes a comment about Corey’s promiscuous nature
That night, Sam in the White Dress commands
Jack to burn down the non-denominational church.
And only 3 Days Remain until the End of the World.
The next day, John and a cop talk in the ruins
of the church where Jack’s dogtags are found
revealing his name to be Justin. Sam runs
into Trudy, a god-fearing Christian who believes
she’s been chosen by God to keep the children
safe from the devil and sin whose distraught
over the burning of the church.
As Sam leaves she runs into Jeremy who begins to show signs
of radiation poisoning.
We bare witness to a montage: Justin forging
a bunnymask, Corey and Randy in a car, Sam
walking through the town, and people looking
up at the sky.
At an intersection, Sam and
Corey have a fight over wanting to leave Conejo,
and Sam walks off in disgust after Corey mentions that Sam once tried to commit suicide.
But as Sam walks away, Corey sees a boy
Billy Moorcroft, gesturing to her. Corey gets out of the car
and as Randy drives away he is
T-Boned by another car
and accidentally kills Sam.
Back at the motel, a distraught Corey finds
a book about time travel and a story that
Sam wrote when she was young, The Last Unicorn.
The story is about an invisible princess
and a boy named Justin who sees hers.
That same night Billy wakes Corey up
and tells her the world will end.
After that night, 2 more days remain until the End of the World
In the next night, Billy takes her to a mineshaft
where she enters a portal to the past. We got back in time with Corey
to the spot where Sam and Corey
have their fight. This time, Corey is nicer
to Sam and this time Corey dies.
Here we are again at the motel, where this time
Sam finds the story about the Princess and the book on time travel
Suddenly we cut to Justin wearing the bunny mask
who comes face to face with
Sam in the White Dress though
this time she has something sticking out of
her face.
He asks her why he showed him this vision of Sam.
The Sam in the White Dress
tells him that she died to keep Justin alive,
and asks him to die for her. Before she leaves,
she tells him to remember the future and go
to higher ground.
Did you catch that? The story about the invisible
Princess that can only be seen by a boy named Justin
About portals that go back in time.
That Iraq Jack’s real name is Justin
and that He was saved by The Princess.
Taking all of this together, we know without
a doubt that Sam In The White Dress is his
Princess, and The Princess, as we just found out, is dead.
Things are going to make sense soon but just stick with me
Sam wakes up and after walking around town,
sees a white dress in a shop.
Jeremy’s parents' shop
Jeremy tries to comfort her and tells
her about the strange metal in the meteorite
when Sam sees his arm. She asks him "What's wrong with it?", although he brushes it off
as just a rash.
She leaves though after Randy comes asking for forgiveness.
After which Jeremy headbutts Randy off his bike.
Sam heads to the church where Pastor John takes her
to a theatre where they stare into a blank
movie screen having visions of "God’s Plan".
And as Trudy enters, John puts the moves on Sam giving
Sam a bracelet.
Thankfully nothing happens
and Sam gives back his bracelet.
Elsewhere, Justin waits on high ground and
Sam reads the time travel book which reveals
that time travellers experience strange dreams.
Like this version of Sam who teleports to
places. With a foreboding declaration:
Here I come, time to die.
It is July 3rd and we
have 11 hours until the End of the World.
Sam awakens at Justin’s campsite where Justin
reveals that he is the grandson of the author
of the time travel book.
He asks her to teach him “how to do it” though Sam doesn’t
know what that means.
So, Justin shows her the bunny mask, something that according to
Justin, Sam’s “dream-self” showed him,
based off a drawing that Donnie drew. He explains
that Sam showed him when she was dead.
She runs away to the mineshaft, where she finds
Trudy’s bracelet with it’s key. Sh enters the
mineshaft where she finds the corpses of Randy’s
brother and Billy. Back in town, the townsfolk
believe Justin killed the kids.
Justin comes in to the diner, begging Sam to show him
“How to do it, before the world ends."
and he is arrested shortly after. She goes back to
the motel where Jeremy invites her to see
the fireworks and gives her the dress.
They go to watch the fireworks when tesseracts
fall through a portal from the sky.
As the tesseracts fall, Jeremy’s becomes a bit
psycho and pushes Sam onto the bunny mask
killing her instantly.
Back in jail, Justin is approached by Sam
in the White Dress who frees him.
Randy finds Sam’s corpse and takes it while Justin puts
on the bunny mask.
He now knows how to do it
He goes back, before it all happens (He goes back in time)
and waits on the windmill where meteor falls.
Like Donnie Darko before him, Iraq Jack saves
the town and no one knows that he did
Sam decides to go home while Corey stays
with Randy.
As the movie ends, we see a montage
of people looking up into the sky, Billy is
still trapped in the mineshaft, Trudy and
John’s true crimes are never known, yet
the people are at peace.
So what just happened? Well like the first movie Donnie Darko,
S Darko revolves around the idea of the tangential universe:
another timeline of events, where
things happen differently;
Sam dying, Corey dying, Justin surviving.
The main timeline is the one where Justin
dies and saves the town but the Sam in the
White Dress (The Princess from another timeline)
uses her powers to save him. But the
universe doesn’t like that.
So it tries to fix itself.
So Justin was saved by Sam in the White Dress from another timeline,
in order to get Sam (NOT in a white dress), killed
So that Corey would go back in time to get herself killed
to save Sam
who in turn gets killed by Jeremy so that THAT Sam who just died
becomes The Sam in the White Dress, who frees Justin,
teaches him what he must do (to time travel) and gets him to go back in time
To get himself killed. *Narrator breathes*
Thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen. If you enjoyed the video leave a like down below
and subscribe to get updated on our latest uploads.
Until next time, be careful of meteorites, okay?.